Hello, hello everyone. We're getting set up for our next session in tea house comments. You are in the
China program of the 2014 Smithsonian Folklife Festival
This program is presented through a collaboration by the Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage at the Smithsonian with the China
International Culture Association
Working with the China Arts and Entertainment Group in Beijing. Thanks a lot for being here today
I don't know if you've noticed but we're doing programs slightly different today the China Festival program actually brought over
120 artists and presenters from China to participate in this program, but today we're doing something a little bit different
We're calling it diaspora day
There are about four million people of Chinese ancestry in the United States and today
We're celebrating the way in which when people move how they transform and adapt culture community and traditions to the new
Police places where they end up so today this this session that we're going into right now is one of the programs that is a part of the
diaspora day programming which is also co-produced with the Smithsonian Asian Pacific American Center
So we have today's session right now that you're we're getting ready to start is the 1882 foundation talk story on the mall
And we are going to be talking about China town today
China town today is the subject of this session
And I'm going to go ahead and introduce to Stan Lu who is going to do the presenting and the moderating of this session
With our with our experts here today our local experts
And I want to first introduce you to Stan so that you know a little bit about him and a little bit about the 1882 foundation
So Stan Lu sitting right here to my left is a retired civil engineer
He used to work for the Federal Aviation Administration and he went to China for the first time in 2003
2003 he spent two years two years there's
Teaching Chinese at a university and when he came back to the US he became very interested and committed to working with Chinese American
Organizations Stan is himself a native of Greenville, Mississippi
Which you will soon hear very clearly when he takes the mic
But Stan has been very involved in a lot of organizations including the organization of Chinese American
as well as the 1882 foundation and for those of you who don't know the 1882 foundation is a
nonpartisan non-profit
national network of people who are working to educate lawmakers and the public about the
historical impact of Chinese exclusion laws and
specifically refers to the date of the first of these exclusion laws which were designed to basically keep Chinese immigrants out of the United States and to prevent
Those who were here already from ever obtaining citizenship
So they've been doing really wonderful work around the country
And I'm now going to turn it over to Stan to get this session going and introduce the rest of the panel. Okay. Thank you
So Jin hey, it's pleasure for us to be here on the mall doing our talk story on the mall and
We and this is diaspora day like so Jin was saying here and I'm gonna introduce everybody here
Are we gonna?
We're gonna have a conversation and you'll get to know who we are because I don't want to spend a whole lot of time going over
Credentials that it really don't matter, you know, what we say is what's gonna be important
So so this is diaspora day and you know and you know the epitome of
Diasporos in the United States of course are China towns and that's that's what we think about when when talking about the display
The Chinese who are away from China in the United States
They're China towns is the first thing to come to my mind and so, you know when we put out our flyer
You know we said that you know that we're gonna talk about China town today
And but this is not gonna be a travel log by any means, you know
we want to talk about what China town means to us and
Because like we said in the flyer China town has different meanings to different people and one of the references I have this book called
American China towns written by Bonnie Suey and so I'll just
Read briefly what she says about you know China town USA a state of mind a world within a world a
Neighborhood that exists in more cities than you might imagine
every day
Americans find something different in China town
It's a place is foreign yet familiar by now quite well known on the Western cultural radar
But splitting the difference still gives many visitors to China town the sense above all that things are not
what they seem and
Popular culture has been telling us this for decades
And it's true that few visitors realize just how much goes on
Beneath the surface of the vibrant microcosm a place with its own deeply felt history and
Stories of national cultural significance, so you know our panel today is going to talk about you know what this means to
To the APA community Chinese American community from our from our viewpoint and then we don't we won't agree on everything because you know as you as
those of you who are
Chinese Americans or Chinese know that you know there's very
We argue a lot, so we have differences of opinion about what China town means to us
And we have and certainly the three panelists here
We all have our own opinions about it and but one thing that you know
And also what you in the audience to be thinking about it to you
What does China town mean to you and you know that's going to be your takeaway for today
Is come out of this this session here real thinking about what China town means when you go
But when if you're here in the DC area go to DC China town and see you know
What does it mean to you and you know and because it's changing every day
China towns and so our lowest you from out of town go back to your hometowns and and look at the China towns there
And what does it mean to you? So that's that's your assignment from coming from the day
But so our our group here one thing we have in common. I think is is that we we all are all ABCs
That's American born Chinese. So, you know, we have that perspective that that we aren't
We're born in this country. So we are Americans, but we're awesome
But we're really definitely Chinese Americans
We're all active in in the DC China town and we do participate in our talk story events that we have in China town
Every month where we gather the community together to share stories of our experiences as
Growing up as Chinese Americans Asian Americans, you know and what that means and you know
We have this monthly in in China town and so if you want if you're interested in if you're in the area, you know
Talk to us afterwards and we'll get you on our mailing list and let you know when the next events are gonna be
But for today, it's China town
It's it's talk story on the mall and so I'm gonna
The way we're gonna introduce each ourselves is I'm gonna go down here and and ask the question
you know
What does China town mean to you and
How is it important to you and then you tell us who you are?
You know what your relationship is and then and then tell us you want to start surely who
Is is involved so tell us about who you are and then what and answer the questions
You didn't do it. Okay
Yeah, my name is Shirley will
Actually, I was born in Washington DC and my involvement in China town is because I'm the director of the China town service center
Which is part of the Chinese community church
The only Chinese community church in Washington DC we like to say and actually the reason I'm here is because
another lady
Was unable to make it and she really was born and worked in China town for many years
And she had one of the first stores in China town that's doing in existence today
Anyway, I'm here to be part of this panel and they tell you that China town is very meaningful to me even though
I was born in DC and then my parents used to come to China town when we were quite young and
At that time it was a lot different. It was a lot smaller a lot quieter
And it was a way for people to meet people like themselves to speak their languages to have a cup of tea
To go over old news about what was happening in China
What was going on in America and I think it's important to me because it is a community even though
We think of it as maybe just a place
People come to eat or it's a touristy place
But there are real residents that live there and it's important. I think to maintain that
My name is Walter Wu. I'm Shirley's husband
and I also
Help at the Chinatown service center, which is a part of the Chinese Community Church
Which is located in the heart of Chinatown. This is that's where we worship
I am an ABC and American born Chinese. I was born in Texas a transplant here in 1972
And in San Antonio, we didn't have a Chinatown and I think for that reason I have a
Special appreciation if not a greater appreciation of Chinatown even though the one in DC
It's quite small as compared let's say to the ones in New York or San Francisco or Los Angeles
We tutor immigrants with their help them improve their English on Saturday morning
We have a program and we also help them with their citizenship and we know how valuable that the
Residents of fine living in Chinatown is
You know we you may go to Chinatown and it may have shrunk
In terms of the commercial Chinatown in terms of the number of restaurants
But I think you will see you find a significant number of Chinese that live there
They they live in mainly in three public housing projects
Located not that far from the heart of Chinatown
So I think the when we help
Not just ourselves, but we have other two have one of our tutors actually who's here who's been a longtime tutor
At our Saturday program and I think the reward that we get is that when we help
Immigrants improve their English or help them in some way we can see the smile on their face
We can see the appreciation and we can see the gratitude that they have and Chinatown
What it is it's it provides an instant a community for the Chinese to
Fellowship with other Chinese and with similar language
So it's really a very key part in helping assimilate into this country
So my name is Ted Gong I'm
I'm from California and everybody's using these terms ABC and I'm ABC and
American-born Chinese but as you guys all know probably there's always like HIP
Hong Kong instant product
MIT made in Taiwan all that kind of stuff like this, but
ABC and when I I'm about a fourth or fifth generation Chinese from California from Fresno
Anybody from Fresno anybody know Fresno?
Fresno and we of course didn't have a Chinatown there and the Chinatown that we
always go to is either San Francisco
primarily or to Los Angeles and
You know the thing about growing up in the rural California is I think there's probably like one or two other Chinese families in my town
Mostly we pick I was just talking with somebody about picking
Cotton you know the long cotton bags and you drag the cotton bags and do things like this
But you would always my mom and dad ran a grocery store in in a little tiny grocery store in
Rosie, California near Dainuba, California, which is there Fresno, but we would always have these things where mom and dad would always say we've got to go to
Daifu Daifu San Francisco Chinatown
You have to go back to buy the groceries to get to talk to the to the family folk to have the banquets to have the weddings and so
For so Chinatown has that meaning as well. It is a place in which you rejuvenate
In many levels one to get the groceries that you can't get in rural, California
to get the food or the banquet that familiar taste to
Talk with those relatives to have those banquets and those meals and so forth Chinatown
Historically and this DC China has had that same
Purpose has
Changed over originally a place for immigrants to come
Still is a place for immigrants to come to get the skills the language get used to
the America America so that they can go off and do better things in
Before Chinatown has other purposes during the exclusion acts we talk about the 1882 exclusion act Chinatown's are actually a protective place
You know in
8200 and so forth if you
were Chinese in
Rural part of California during the time when the Chinese exclusion acts was going on the explosion period you could be killed
You know and Chinatown was a protective enclave
That is the place where Chinatown's gather together protect themselves in California just to let you know
After the exclusion acts and the period which they call the Expulsion period
There were officially 200 roundups of Chinese rural Chinese
Kick out of the areas or killed or lynched and forced out of their rural towns to purge
Chinese from the districts and Chinatown function as a place a
Protective place later on it becomes a place where immigrants get skills later on it becomes a place where people are
able to move from there to other parts of the community like in DC here
The original DC Chinatown here does anybody know where the original DC Chinatown was is a federal triangle
The original Chinatown was a federal triangle and it's expect it was then pushed off to where it is now
And it's now constricted to where it is so it continues to evolve
But there is something about Chinatown that is different. There is a sense that Chinatown
Is a place where you can get identity it's linked with Chinese American identity. It's linked with our
Culture it's linked with a desire to go back like myself
To find those things which make up our culture and our identity
Chinatown can be a concept as well as a place very good very good
So yeah, I think all all three of you what you said is you know, right on
It's it's different
There's different views of what Chinatown is and again
I'm gonna quote from this book here because I think it has some great quotes in it here
The truth is that Chinatown is a space of self-invention
The oldest Chinese immigrants including but not limited to those who landed in the port cities of New York San Francisco
Los Angeles Honolulu had to create a community setting that was palatable to the white society at large
These days new immigrants continue to come for a new life and a search for and a search for a cultural identity
Brings Chinese Americans of many generations back to walk alongside them
And I guess you know I kind of fall in that latter category about looking for myself identity because you know
What Chinatown means to me is you know, I feel good there for some reason, you know
I can't explain it because you know my upbringing was was such that I
Grew up in Mississippi like so Jen said during the 40s and 50s during extremely a bad time there
Where I was just not fun being Chinese, you know, we were picked on we were abused
And we couldn't go to schools with anybody else
We had to build a one-room schoolhouse for us where we had all of our
All the families in the city of Greenville in one school house and house all 12 grades with one teacher
So, you know for that was kind of life. I was brought up with and so I said, hey, it's no fun being Chinese
I'm not gonna be Chinese. So I
You know, I literally rejected my heritage ran away from it, you know, try to forget who I was and and so
My long journey back so I'm on a journey of self-discovery now because I think I've come back
You know, I'm proud to be Chinese American now and it's part of and Chinatown's a part of my
Help me in finding myself identity and that and that's I think that's a very key part of
What why we're espousing what the importance of Chinatown's here for me because there's a personal journey
I think it's a personal journey for all of us here in the community and so, you know, I would like to ask
You know, Walter and Shirley, you know
You know as you grew up, you know, maybe you're growing up wasn't as drastic as mine
You know, I didn't handle it well me probably handle it the better than I did
but you know, so how did that influence you know how you review Chinatown's now and
And you know, what was it mean?
You're growing up, even though you didn't grow up in a Chinatown
Yeah, I grew up in DC
Actually, we had a laundry in southeast near I guess over the bridge Pennsylvania Avenue
And at that time in the schools I went to Elumentary and even Miller School. There weren't that many Asians
So of course I was stood out
There'll be like maybe one other girl who might be Chinese and then she moved away
Not be only Asian person there and my friends were always to be amazed at the beginning of school year
How teachers would always remember my name, but of course, you know, I was the only person who was Asian
You know had black hair black eyes or whatever
So I was
I'm aware that I'm Chinese. I'm different from my Caucasian friends, even though
They probably didn't look at me that way, which was good
But I always knew that I was different, you know, my food was different at home
I didn't eat sandwiches like they did. We always had rice at lunchtime
You know, it was just different, you know, I had to stay in and we know we had a laundry and you know their parents
Living a house and so my dream was someday that I was gonna have a house too and have and be like that dick and Jane book
And have a dog and a cat and daddy would go to work and mommy would stay home
anyway
We do have a house so I did look be able to lift this American dream
But yeah, I'm always aware that I'm Chinese and Chinatown was important to have a place to go to so that my parents go to
To meet their friends again, you know to talk to meet people of their same languages and that's that's always important for everybody
Well, my background was entirely different. I I grew up in Texas actors born in San Antonio
Were the major population Hispanic so there really weren't that many Chinese there and so it
You know, we did what Chinese food we ate was was
From my mother's cooking at home basically, you know, so we didn't have a Chinatown or anything like that
We visit relatives for Chinese and so forth and that was about the extent of the Chinese population
So when I came to Washington, DC to work in
end up staying because I met my wife here, but I remember when I
Visited New York City for the first time during Chinese New Year
I was just so mesmerized by the number of Chinese
In New York Chinatown, I mean to me it was so impressive to see so many Chinese
There I
Was thrilled to death really I I never experienced something like that. So it's great really it
It's a it's a great thrill, you know to be among other Chinese and to see
Go into a Chinatown where you see so many restaurants and so many businesses and so forth and they're all were so thriving really so
it really was an eye-opening experience for me and it's something that
I always will appreciate and even though the DC Chinatown is relatively small, but I think
We both love it in terms of trying to we identify
Sure, my wife Shirley and I you know, we're first generation. We're born here
So we identify very much with what the immigrants are going through and so our church has a Chinatown service center
That caters to immigrants and helps them with their social needs and so forth. So we both are very very involved with that
We have a program that where we tutor
Immigrants with their English and help them with their citizenship. So for both of us has been very very rewarding
So I mean so what what is the aura about Chinatown and makes Chinatown a Chinatown, you know as as
So, you know, what is it?
We're talking a lot of intangibles here. It seems like but a lot of real stuff too
But but there are lots of intangibles. Would you say that read that Ted?
Yeah, so
So I hope that there is actually I hope that other people can contribute some ideas as well
the idea of a Chinatown is where the what I remember one person one time somebody asked me he says that he says
Why should we should we should we not preserve Chinatown?
This is actually a Boston urban planner Chinatown urban planner and he says, you know, that's a bit
That's a philosophical question
If you ask me how do you preserve Chinatown in terms of how do you do the traffic flows and how do you do the buildings and
The constructions and the sites and so forth
Well, that's a question I can answer as an engineer or a designer
But if you ask me should we or should we not preserve Chinatown?
Then that's a question of a lot philosophical question and I'm not sure all of us have the right answer to that
Another person said to me that says Chinatown is where the Chinese people are if that's the case
Then if you use the DC example, there are not that many Chinese residents
Physically people living in Chinatown anymore many more are moving toward Rockville. Everybody knows that if you're talking about where the
food is
There are good Chinese restaurants in Chinatown
There are others and even more than other places in Maryland in different places of this sort
They in New York you talk about not just one Chinatown a Mott Street
You talk about three or four Chinatowns because the different congregations of people and their restaurants have moved in
Philadelphia the restaurants have moved and so forth and and so on so what is it that makes Chinatown
Chinatown and where things are
Think about it again right now. There are more Chinese festivals being done in the urban area. So you have these big festivals
being done say at Tyson's Corner or Oak at one of the malls and they have these great dances all day long for Chinese New Year or for Qingming and
You will go there and everybody will celebrate those things and learn a little bit eat a little bit and learn a little bit more about Chinese culture
But you would never say that Tyson's Corner or Fair Oaks Mall is Chinatown
Which you would never say that right but and you would have a hard time saying just because there's a
Concentration of people in Rockville that Rockville is Chinatown. There's something about that term Chinatown
In these historical Chinatowns that make makes it what it is and I'm not sure what it is. It's a yes
Yes
Yes, so but at the same time
So he is saying that how do you
How how do you keep a Chinatown in the country as diverse as the United States is?
That raises another interesting question
Everybody else other ethnic groups have their own barrios their own fishermen's war for something this sort should all those
Places be preserved separately as we grow
We remember that I was raised and say a part of New York City
But I don't necessarily want to maintain that area if I were raised in the projects in Detroit
That's defined my character and stuff
But I don't want this or preserve that that that that building right but why is it then that do we want to preserve a
Chinatown area do we have any answers to that?
Yeah, who has answers to that?
You know my own my own answer
Somewhat is I agree. I mean it is it's hard when to answer
But you know I'm saying that you know what I what I read what I read earlier is that that Chinatown
You know has his own deeply filled history and stories of national cultural significance
And I think one of the things about Chinatown is it was a protective
Area for us as opposed to you know
this is where we had to be and I think you know there's lots of stories there that need to be preserved
You know if not the structures of themselves
Then the stories that go behind know why these China why were Chinatowns there?
I think that's important history lesson for all of us in this country to know about you know why were these
Why did that the the Chinese population?
Retreat into these Chinatowns and and and they got the reputation
It's not because that you know they wanted to per se
But but then they were they were kind of forced into that area and they persevered there
And I think that's how they became a stronger community
It made for a sense of community and I think that that kind of history is there
I don't know. I don't know if you disagree or not agree with me Walter or
So you so part of the community is part of it is the community the current community there the historic community
But part of it is sort of the Hollywood myth of Chinatown
Who you know you have Chinatown movies you have everybody you talk about the for better or worse
Whether it's the stereotype of the underground tongs or the other stuff like this
Chinatown evokes an image that I think other other I think communities don't necessarily evoke and it's both positive and negative for the Chinese Americans. Yeah
Immersion and culture
I think that's
What why is that so one of the things she's saying is that growing up Oklahoma you come back much like
Stan is saying or Walter is saying you come in and suddenly you surround it by
Things that your parents or grandparents or that kind of stuff that happens and that gives you another sense of
Part of your identity in history
But why is that that you get that from a Chinatown and not from say going to the Chinese Historical Museum in New York or the
Inju Island Museum and why is it that it's a Chinatown that does that that place?
I think it's just an aura there that does that because I agree
That what you're saying there because you know, I don't speak Chinese
You know so you know people say they go to Chinese because they hear people speaking they're saying like I don't understand a word
That's being said there by Chinese people there since so you know and I can say I ran away from my Chinese heritage
So I really don't identify but somehow when I'm there, you know, I feel like hey staying your home
And something is it you know, I use the term is a cultural touchstone for me
In my personal journey and I think it I think that resonates with lots of people like me
Who who've had us who've kind of run away from their identity or not sure what their identity is because the duality that we
Chinese Americans face in this country, you know, you know living especially second generation people like us
They're a generation fourth generation. Yeah. Yeah, I think for those who Chinese Americans who are born here
You know, we may tend to view Chinatown more in the abstract as
Something that has enduring meaning and I think it does
Because it's it's a part of our history and so forth
But I but I think there's another level which is much more basic and that is for the immigrants who come
You know, they seek comfort
in like kind language in other people who've had experiences just like them and so it
To me, it's it's it's very very basic really
It's security for immigrants who come and I think when you find someone who is sharing
Somewhat the same experience that you're about to embark on it provides a tremendous
Amount of comfort and security
So in even in DC Chinatown when we look at it, we may find that it seemed to be relatively small
But really for the people who live there the newly arrived immigrants
I think it means so much to them
And I think we see that in our interaction at the Chinatown service center the immigrants who come in for help
Sometimes they just something very very simple they come in just for translation to get something in the mail
They don't know what this is so you can I think what we always try to do is put put ourselves in an immigrants place
Imagine if you were to go to China and know not a word of Chinese and then how would you cope and so?
I think that is the attitude that we take when we
Assist immigrants who come to the Chinatown service center seeking help
Sounds like
That's that's a real toughy Kirk
You know she's asking you know how do how do we you know I announced the question?
I really want to present here as sort of our assignment you know how how do we do this?
How how do we maintain because you're not gonna you're not you know DC Chinatown?
It's not gonna have a lot of residents again
You know and like like San Francisco where you're selling fish you know on the open market there and things like that and
and a lot of people living there and speaking the language in Chinese and in dialects and so forth so
That's a hard one to answer you know how do we preserve this this feeling here and preserve this most of all the history
That's been there and and the and the people who live there play their life and cry there the whole thing
so so
So part part of it is you do have to maintain the physical appearance of the time that boundaries to define it whether it's the
Architecture the little whether or not they're bona fide architecture is another question
But there's something that allows it to be distinct so in DC Chinatown for example shops have to have Chinese characters on their windows
Right and so those kind of things seem superficial
But they are still important enough to help define that space then what you do in that space is important
What are the activities that you do there do you allow the family?
Associations to continue to operate there does the city given enough a family association
Talking very much about the Lee association the more you're associated on long and things of these sorts these things
Don't have the original purpose that they have in the sense that
Everybody had to go through them because nobody else spoke Chinese Chinese nights be English and they did a lot of extra or
Judiciary or sort of semi judiciary type of functions
But they are still important because they are gathering places to help the person identify what they do Chinese
Consolidate benevolent association
still represents 30 some odd
associations of
Chinese people and organizations they do annually the Chinese New Year parade those type of things are important still to do and
We should have the city and continue to encourage that the building space does it have
Places that are museums that allow us to preserve and tell the stories which tan is talking about
So if the people have or have gone there and lived there and have a story to tell and we ought to have a way to
His preserve it and then to once we preserve it to tell it so that the next generation or other people
Not just the next generation Chinese
But other people who are passing through a giant town know that there are stories created in China town that represented the Chinese
Identity or diaspora that happened to be in DC
You had another question
Yes
I
Correct and so one of the issues there that very much is on top of everybody's mind if you think about China town and what makes it
It's the individual entrepreneurs the mom and pop shops the little things like that to sell the chashu bow and the all that kind of stuff
Did you that we think of as comfort food as you gentrify the prices go up?
There's no way to stop the city from raising the taxes and so forth like this
And at a certain point those people that operate those businesses my mom and dad or somebody they're getting old and quite frankly
They worked really hard to get you in college
So you get that law degree right and you're not gonna go back there and run that place
So those are very real practical questions to look at and some of the things as us who have looking at property
As the development China, how do we encourage?
Something like that there recognizing that economically we may have already passed. It's already gone by right so
So I'm not sure what the real answer is to that
It could be city. Maybe the city has to produce some kind of
Tax incentive that allows these things to stay but do you really want to do that?
Do you really want to encourage a small business that doesn't that doesn't really make itself productive?
Or do you have ordinance say there should be an Asian related Chinese?
Those are all questions for us practically today my my feeling just to finish off is that I think I think what?
We many people focus on the small shops because we like the mom and pop. I would like to see
Big banquet facilities because if you have a banquet there
It allows us to do those things that make our Chinese life
significant the wedding the
the moon you
The the Qingming Festival or something where you bring your family there
You have to create so it's not so much that small definition of a shop
But it is a Chinese sort of setting that allows you to carry on your family traditions and your activities
Yeah, so well, yeah, we're almost at the end of our time. So we get closing comments here
It is difficult to have small businesses. It's just not profitable
It also I think housing is also a problem. That's why people cannot paint afford to live there
We have all these expensive condominiums
Unless you have a little a high income
It seems impossible. So but we do have people who do want to live there
They want to raise their families there and there's no affordable housing and low-income housing seem to be disappearing too
So there's all sorts of problems and I really don't know really what can be done really
Yeah, my fear is that what we're gonna end up having in DC
Because of the gentrification and so forth is that what we end up having is just a commercial Chinatown
Where we have very few residents
Living there and that would be a real shame really, you know, we I think in Las Vegas
They have what they call a Chinatown in a mall
To me that is not a Chinatown really and I think it's incumbent upon the city to
Provide affordable housing right now. There's three buildings that are affordable housing and one looks like it's on the chopping block
Because because it's such a hot area. They want to turn that into a condominium
So I don't know what the answer is basically but I think at the very least what we know we need is an infusion of capital with
Because you know, we have to put traffic in the air the area is is really a hot area now
But we need some entrepreneurs with some Chinese connections who's willing to invest in the area right now
We have we have this is like Panera Starbucks. They're all coming in but the Chinese entrepreneurs
I think are unwilling to make the investment
Okay, very good. Yeah, I think I agree with all that and you know that the one point that I did want to
Emphasize on yours that you know, we I certainly don't want it to be a commercial Chinatown
Yeah, I don't want to we don't know none of us want a Disneyland atmosphere there
We're just for tourists to come in there and gawk at the Chinese people there and that's not that's not a Chinatown
You know, we want it to be meaningful. I think what they're saying is right. We're gonna have to help help from the city planners
To bring in the right businesses and and to make the right conditions there to make it work
Excuse me, but so so we're coming to the end here
So again, I want I want to read again from from this quote here because I think it's very significant that what what what?
Bonnie Suey says in this book here says, you know, the myth of America lies in its patchwork heritage
Though the United States hasn't always tolerated difference it continues to this day to be built by immigrants
The cut this contradiction is in founding myths led to an ethnic awakening the birth of cultural pride that is still evolving
Visitors in Chinatown have a role. You all have a role just as residents do in the bartering of cultural currency
If there's authenticity to be experienced
It's that of an immigrant enclave that continues to be vital. It's a reminder of what makes America special and
And so after a century and a half of Chinese immigration
Chinatown is still the first step for new immigrants into America and for American-born Chinese into their Chinese heritage
And so I thank you all for your attention today
And I think Ted Walter and and Shirley for their participation here
And really I said you guys got a year of silence then you help us out help us with Chinatowns
You know make it make it work for us here. We're make it work for you, too. Thank you
Don't go too far away because starting in just a few minutes we'll have another
Panel discussion this one entitled young historians living histories
So starting in just a few minutes as we get set up young historians living histories
Yeah
Yeah, no
So I'd like to welcome you to day number five of the 2014
Smithsonian Folklife Festival today is
diaspora day and that's diaspora day both for the